# Python Examples
The files in this directory uses Python as the scripting language
for controlling Xena's L2-3 products: Xenacompact and XenaBay.

The files comprise a small Python library named testutils and some 
test scripts using the functionality provided by the library.

In the following examples we assume that your chassis ip address is 192.168.1.200
and uses ports 0/0 and 0/1 of that chassis. Change the script arguments for
your particular setup.

## Log and debug functionality
Most scripts have a debug option **-d** which can be used to show which script
commands are actually sent to the server during execution.

Logging of scripting commands can be enabled by setting the environment
variable **XENALOG**. This allows you to inspect the actual commands generated
by running a script with specific parameters and options enabled.

To do this from unix os'es,

```
> export XENALOG=logfile
> ./PortSpeed.py 192.168.1.200
> cat logfile
```

Comments can be generated by using the Comment() method. They have no effect,
but can be useful to separate commands belonging to different iterations or different
test phases when logging commands. See **StreamSetup.py** for the use of Comment().


## Packet generating scripts

### StreamSetup.py
This script generates traffic at 10% of line rate.

```
> ./StreamSetup.py 192.168.1.200 0/0 0/1
```


## Utility scripts
These scripts are just simple examples of how to extract certain information
from a chassis.

### PortSpeed.py
Without any other arguments, displays interface and speed for all ports on all modules
on this chassis

```
> ./Info.py 192.168.1.200
```

To limit this to specified ports, specify a port list
```
> ./Info.py 192.168.1.200 0/0 0/1 1/1
```
