# Python Examples
The files in this collection uses Python as the scripting language
for controlling Xena's L4-7 products: XenaAppliance and XenaScale.

The files comprise a Python library named testutils and a number
of test scripts using the functionality provided by the library.

In the following examples we assume that your chassis ip address is 192.168.1.210
and uses ports 1/2 and 1/3 of that chassis. Change the script arguments for
your particular setup.

## Log and debug functionality
Most scripts have a debug option **-d** which can be used to show which script
commands are actually sent to the server during execution.

Logging of scripting commands can be enabled by setting the environment 
variable **XENALOG**. This allows you to inspect the actual commands generated
by running a script with specific parameters and options enabled.

To do this from unix os'es,

```
> export XENALOG=logfile
> ./Ramp.py 192.168.1.210 1/2 1/3
> cat logfile
```

Comments can be generated by using the Comment() method. They have no effect,
but can be useful to separate commands belonging to different iterations or different
test phases when logging commands. See **Bisect.py** for the use of Comment().

## Packet generating scripts

### Ramp.py
This script generates SYN/FIN packets only. No payload is generated.

```
> ./Ramp.py 192.168.1.210 1/2 1/3
```

### Payload.py
The Payload.py script transmits payload over a specified number of connections 
and load profile (see the many options for details). Following
connection establishment, payload is transmitted.

```
> ./Payload.py 192.168.1.210 1/2 1/3
```

### Bisect.py
This script performs an iterative procedure to find the maximum number of
connections per second CPS for connection establishment and teardown.

There are a number of options, such as the test resolution, number of allocated
packet engines, etc., but for a quick test with 1M connections just type

```
> ./Bisect.py 192.168.1.210 1000 1000 600 400 1/2 1/3
```

## Utility scripts
These scripts are just simple examples of how to extract certain information 
from a chassis.

### Info.py
Displays various chassis related information, such as software versions and 
license attributes.

```
> ./Info.py 192.168.1.210
```

### PortStatus.py
Lists all ports on a chassis along with attributes, such as configured
speed, current link speed, packet engine allocation, speed capabilities, etc.

```
> ./PortStatus.py 192.168.1.210
```

### GetStats.py
Retrieves selected statistics for a given port.

```
> ./GetStats.py 192.168.1.210 1/2
```

### ResetAllPorts.py
Used to bring all ports in a default state, clearing all counters, and packet 
engine allocations. The script also takes a list of ports as an argument.

To reset all ports on a chassis (assuming a valid license for all the ports):
```
> ./ResetAllPorts.py 192.168.1.210
```

To reset port 1/2 only (assuming a valid license for port 1/2):
```
> ./ResetAllPorts.py 192.168.1.210 1/2
```

### Reboot.py
Just a simple example showing how to remotely reboot (or halt) a chassis.
  
Reboot: 
```
> ./Reboot.py 192.168.1.210
```

Halt:
```
> ./Reboot.py 192.168.1.210 halt
```

